# Data Engineering with LLM Agents\n\nThis repository contains a framework for data engineering tasks leveraging Large Language Model (LLM) agents. The project is designed to automate and streamline various aspects of data processing, retrieval, and reasoning using modular agent-based architecture.\n\n## Table of Contents\n- [Project Overview](#project-overview)\n- [Components](#components)\n- [Setup](#setup)\n- [Usage](#usage)\n- [Contributing](#contributing)\n- [License](#license)\n\n## Project Overview\n\nThe core idea behind this project is to use specialized LLM agents to handle different stages of a data pipeline. This includes ingesting data, retrieving relevant information, and performing complex reasoning tasks. The modular design allows for flexibility and scalability in managing data workflows.\n\n## Components\n\nThe repository is structured around several key Python modules, each serving a specific role:\n\n-   `main.py`: The main entry point of the application, orchestrating the interaction between different agents and managing the overall workflow.\n-   `ingestion_agent.py`: An LLM-powered agent responsible for ingesting data from various sources. This agent likely handles data loading, initial processing, and preparing data for further steps.\n-   `retrieval_agent.py`: An LLM-powered agent focused on retrieving relevant information from ingested data or external knowledge bases. It utilizes LLM capabilities for intelligent search and context extraction.\n-   `reasoning_agent.py`: An LLM-powered agent designed for complex logical processing and decision-making based on retrieved data. This agent can perform analysis, generate insights, and execute predefined reasoning workflows.\n-   `schemas.py`: Defines the data structures and schemas used throughout the project, ensuring data consistency and clear communication between components.\n-   `utils.py`: Contains utility functions and helper methods that support the operations of various agents and the main application.\n-   `payload.json`: An example or configuration file, likely used for defining input data structures or agent configurations.\n-   `requirements.txt`: Lists all the necessary Python dependencies to run the project.\n\n## Setup\n\nTo set up the project locally, follow these steps:\n\n1.  **Clone the repository:**\n    ```bash\n    git clone https://github.com/ganesh714/de_llm.git\n    cd de_llm\n    ```\n\n2.  **Create and activate a virtual environment (recommended):**\n    ```bash\n    python -m venv venv\n    source venv/bin/activate  # On Windows use `venv\\Scripts\\activate`\n    ```\n\n3.  **Install the dependencies:**\n    ```bash\n    pip install -r requirements.txt\n    ```\n\n4.  **Configure environment variables (if any):**\n    (Add instructions here if API keys or other sensitive information need to be set up)\n\n## Usage\n\nTo run the project:\n\n```bash\npython main.py\n```\n(Further usage instructions will be added here based on the `main.py` functionality)\n\n## Contributing\n\nWe welcome contributions to this project! Please see `CONTRIBUTING.md` (if it exists) for guidelines on how to submit pull requests, report issues, and contribute to the development.\n\n## License\n\nThis project is licensed under the [MIT License](LICENSE.md) (or specify another license if applicable).